---
layout: post
title: "Next Steps"
description: ""
category: training
tags: [Node.js, Express.js, JavaScript, code school]
excerpt: I am close to deploying the MVP/demo version of a Python/Django capstone project...
---
{% include JB/setup %}


I am close to deploying the MVP/demo version of a Python/Django capstone project, which I'm calling [Make Perfect](https://github.com/treecasiano/makeperfect). Make Perfect allows musicians to record lyrics, chords, and rehearsal notes and to categorize a repertoire or create set lists such as "My Classical Guitar Repertoire" or "Gig on 8-13-2015" or any category of the user's choosing. It is primarily designed to help people when they practice by giving them a well-organized, web-based repository. Creating a single-page app has given me good practice in using vanilla JavaScript for DOM manipulation and AJAX/JSON to create a RESTful API.

There are advantages and disadvantages to working on a capstone project for so long. One of the advantages is that it narrows the scope of all that I could learn to only that which is necessary for the project. The world of software engineering and web development is vast, and every avenue of study is a potential rabbit hole. Narrowing one's focus is critical if you want to avoid spinning in circles to the point of nausea.

Another advantage of working on a big project is that I will have something substantial in my portfolio, something I care about, even if it still has some spaghetti code in need of refactoring. My capstone project is meaningful and useful to me personally, even if it never moves past the early demo/beta stage. As a multi-instrumentalist who hopes to one day perform again, it is convenient to have an app like this to organize my material. It's much more useful than separate Word documents or handwritten notebooks. My excitement about the project made it easier to push through the frustration.

 The disadvantage of hammering away so long on a single large project is that I spent a great deal of time inefficiently working in isolation due to the structure of this particular phase of the bootcamp. I did not have the advantage of the strength and knowledge of teammates. Students worked separately on individual projects and therefore encountered common challenges at different times, making it hard to help each other. It was difficult to apply what I could glean from the code of my classmates since it was all so specific to their individual projects. 

 Often, I was only able to tackle the next step of my project by receiving one-on-one tutelage from the instructor, whose attention was necessarily divided amongst all the other students in my cohort. If I had been required to submit a project proposal designed to shepherd me through the project planning process, I might have been able to make more efficient use of my time. A small minority of students appeared fine with the loose structure, but I found it frustrating more often than not. I consider myself an intelligent autodidact, but even I need structure when learning new and complex processes.

In these past few months, I have learned more about myself and the kind of work I want to do, as well as more about the training I need and how to get it. I can more readily identify gaps in my knowledge and how to fill in these gaps. Between now and November, when I intend to hit the job market properly, I will follow a full-time schedule of my own design that will help me become job-ready for the positions I desire. I have a job coach through Treehouse and enough skills to tackle the MEAN stack, level up my understanding of algorithms and data structures, and build some more small projects.

I like Django and Python and will welcome any opportunity to work in a Python/Django stack if the project involves one of my passions (music, education, languages), but I am primarily pointing myself in the direction of all things front-end and JavaScript. I'm trying to walk the line between being enough of a generalist to remain nimble in the job market and developing enough of a specialty to be a T-shaped developer. It is not an easy task.

I will soon participate in my first Hack Oregon team. This experience will afford me the opportunity to learn more about data visualization and to work on an open source project. I look forward to participating in a project using civic data for the public good. This fall I will also help facilitate a PyLadies course, take a course in algorithms, and work through some online courses on Angular, MongoDB, Express, Node, CSS/Sass, and unit testing. I also intend to build, build, and build! And network. And walk and do yoga. And play the guitar.

Onward!




