---
layout: post
title: "Moving Forward Using All My Breath"
description: ""
category: career development
tags: [Hack Oregon, PyCharm, tech interviews, JavaScript, Node.js, Express, Italian]
excerpt: The past three months have been a blur...
---
{% include JB/setup %}

The past three months have been a blur. I kept meaning to write about everything, but writing can be harder than coding. I have been told that it's important to write about every time you shore up a knowledge gap, but I'm shoring them up so quickly that I can't keep up. I'll compose a more technical post soon, but for now, I'm lazily tossing out some of the highlights.

## Hack Oregon
In October I attended a [Hack Oregon](http://www.hackoregon.org/) Buildathon and ended up working with the urban development team. I continued to work with them for about two weeks after the Buildathon and got some exposure to Leaflet JS and more practice with Bootstrap, Grunt, geoJSON, and using version control with a team. Our project, PlotPDX, looks at urban development in Portland, a topic of vital interest. It is one of the projects that will continue in the next build cycle that starts in January, and I intend to remain involved. I feel privileged to be part of the work Hack Oregon is doing.

## No Longer a Tech Interview Virgin
I had my first technical interview in late October. Alas, I did not get the job, but it was good experience and I really enjoyed meeting the team and learning more about the company. I didn't sell myself as well as I could have, but it takes practice and experience to do well in these kinds of interviews. I'm increasingly aware that I need to bring several more sophisticated projects to fruition so that I have the diversity and depth of experience to do well in this market. All of this takes time, time that is easily squandered when [you don't know how to move forward and every path looks like the right one](http://www.vikingcodeschool.com/posts/why-learning-to-code-is-so-damn-hard).

## Those Who Can, Teach
 An opportunity to be a teaching assistant for Code Fellows fell into my lap in early November. They had an urgent need for someone to help with the Foundations of Software Development course, and my former instructor recommended me for the gig. I was at a bit of a disadvantage because I was coming in almost half-way through the course, but I welcomed the challenge and spent every waking hour catching up on the reading and working through the backlog of grading. I learned so much in that 2.5 week period.

## Breaking up with Django
I decided to abandon Python and Django and focus exclusively on full stack JavaScript so that I could level up more rapidly. Last week I completed a new Node.js/Express project called [I Numeri Italiani](http://i-numeri-italiani.herokuapp.com). It's a little lesson and quiz on the Italian numbers 1 through 9999. I still need to add some enhanced functionality to it and put more thought into pedagogical concerns, but for the most part, it's done. It's a responsive, mobile-first design, and the translations of the numbers are generated by a function I wrote rather than querying a database of 9999 numbers. My next post will be about the build tools I used and challenges I encountered. I started using Gulp, scss-lint, jscs-lint, unit testing, and did my best to make it devoid of code smells. Speaking of smelly code...

## Make Perfect Is Far From Perfect
I still don't really know what to do with my Make Perfect app. I added Sass and cleaned up the CSS quite a bit, but I still don't like the design, UX/UI, or the fact that it's in Django. I created a few branches trying to add jQuery and a namespace, but I couldn't get things to gel. I think it's a good idea for me to temporarily abandon the project and come back to it when I have some MEAN stack or React projects under my belt. I use the app regularly when I practice piano or guitar, so if nothing else, I know it's a good tool than can fill a need for musicians. That satisfies.

## Be Still My Beating Heart
My love affair with PyCharm continues to deepen. I think we're in it for the long haul, though I do fool around with Atom on the side. PyCharm has almost all the same functionality as WebStorm, so it's great for JavaScript development and helps when I find myself back in Python land. If I weren't already married, I'd probably marry PyCharm.

<hr>
And on that note, I think it's time to spin up my next Express app...


